 
1 GENERAL INFORMATION  FOREWORD 	In this section, we provide all the general warmings about the machine, providing a broad view on your product, service, support, and communication with the Manufacturing Company. You will also learn how to use this manual: who is aimed at, how is it organized and what are the special features that make it easy to use.             
1.1 Indications after the purchase   
1.1.1 Foreword The following manual is provided directly by the manufacturer to allow the customer to know the characteristics of the machine, the various constituent parts, spare parts, maintenance and methods to be able to resolve any problems as quickly as possible. The texts and images provided in this manual are not binding, so the supplying firm reserves the right to make changes to the purpose of improvement, without being bound to supply updates of this publication. Also please note that any partial reproductions of this manual will be persecuted according to the manner and timing provided by law. Failure to follow the directions and instructions contained within this manual, the manufacturer is relieved from any liability. Please note that the reproduction of the publication is only allowed for use within the company buyer and not for any other use. This manual in case of transfer or sale must be delivered with the machine. In the case is damaged or lost, you have to request a copy of the manufacturer of the machine or the previous owner. The manual is considered a permanent part of the machine. 
1.1.2 Manufacturer’s details  Manufacturer: 	Boato Pack s.r.l. Address: 		Via Rosa Agazzi, 6/b 			34079 Staranzano (GO) 			ITALY Telephone: 	from Italy 0481-484555  from abroad *39-0481-484555 Telefax: 	from Italy 0481-482837       from abroad *39-0481-482837 E-mail:	info@boatopack.com Website:	www.boatopack.com 
1.1.3 Manufacturer and machine identification details A metal plate applied and sealed to the packaging machine back details the information required by “CE MARKING”  -  Manufacturer's name and address -  CE Marking -  Packaging machine type -  Year of manufacture    IT IS FORBIDDEN TO REMOVE OR REPLACE THE “CE MARKING” PLATE. IF THE PLATE IS DAMAGED OR THE MANUFACTURER’S SEAL IS REMOVED, THE CUSTOMER MUST INFORM BOATO PACK S.R.L. ACCORDINGLY. 
1.1.4 Technical support For technical assistance necessary to refer to the data on the machine, giving the manufacturer the machine code (serial number) and the year of construction found on the nameplate located on the same side of the machine frame. In the event of faults or anomalies it is advisable to request for technical assistance to the Boato Pack srl. Before making changes contact the sales representative or the addresses of reference.  1.1.5  Operator The following manual contains all the features of the machine and for this the customer must take the task to read it carefully.  ONLY QUALIFIED AND TRAINED PERSONNEL MAY INSTALL AND CARRY OUT MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS ON THIS MACHINE. ONLY QUALIFIED AND TRAINED PERSONNEL IS ALLOWED TO OPERATE ON THIS MACHINE 
1.2 Indication for reading 
1.2.1 Mode to consultation The manual is divided into sections which in turn are divided into chapters. In the first few pages you will find the detailed index that allows the operator or anyone who reads this publication to identify directly the part being sought. The page numbering is consecutive and does not refer to the sections: page number is located in the upper part of the sheet within the colored box. Next there is also find the number of the section and its corresponding title. 
1.2.2 Legend of symbols This manual, it includes a small paragraph to group all symbols that can be found in the reading of the same.  You can find symbols of DANGER: WARNING  SUSPENDED LOADS  PASSAGE OF FORK TRUCKS  ELECTROCUTION  CRUSHING HAZARD OF UPPER LIMBS  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS (ROLLERS)  HAZARD OF CUT  MOVING COMPONENTS  HIGH TEMPERATURE  FLAMMABLE MATERIALS  UV RAY    You can find symbols PROHIBITION: DO NOT PERFORM WORK before REMOVING THE VOLTAGE  DO NOT REMOVE GUARDS  MAINTENANCE PROHIBITION  DO NOT EXTINGUISH WITH WATER   You can find symbols of OBLIGATION: ATTENTION  SUITABLE CLOTHES  SAFETY HELMET  SAFETY FOOTWEAR  PROTECTIVE GLOVES  CHECK THE INTEGRITY OF SAFETY COVERS  CHECK GROUNDING OF THE MACHINE  DISCONNECT THE POWER SUPPLY BEFORE MAINTENANCE   You can find GENERAL symbols: OPERATION BE TO PERFORMED  GREASING OPERATIONS  DO NOT GREASE  INSTRUCTIONS FOR CLEANING  INFO (read the use instructions)  NOTE FOR THE OPERATOR  
1.2.3 Legend of notes In the manual, we can distinguish two types of legends of Understanding: one refers to important notes for the user, the other refers to the method of reading and understanding of the text through the images. In the first method are highlighted significant parts in the following way:  1 2  1. Location of symbol. 2. Indicates the specified note to which the operator or the machine is subjected.    Examples: ATTENTION, GENERAL DANGER  Attention hazard, read this note carefully.  ATTENTION, SPECIFIC HAZARD   Attention specific hazard, read this note carefully.  IMPORTANT NOTE FOR OPERATOR  Important note for operator.  
1.2.4 Legend of images  In the second method, to be able to simplify the understanding of the text, we use the images or figures, which reference while reading the text. These references are characterized by the text in italics, a different coloring and square brackets enclosing it.   FIGURES AND PHOTOGRAPHS  Fig. 15 - Joint fuses, whole vision. [fig.a] for example [fig.15]  where a. Refers to the number of the images.        TECHNICAL DRAWINGS  Fig. 12 - Internal mechanics of movement. [Fig. a.b] for example [Fig. 12.3] Where a. Refers to the number of the images. b. Refers to a specific point highlighted in the figure.             2  
2 INTRODUCTION       PREAMBLE          This section describes the features of the machine TORNADO Evolution, describing its potential, the hardware and its functional part.	   
2.1 Tornado EVOlution  
2.1.1 General information The TORNADO-EVOlution is a vertical packaging machine designed to form, fill and seal on 4 sides sachets of thermo sealable material [Fig. 1].  Fig. 1 - Sachets of thermo sealable.  The TORNADO-EVOlution has been developed with the idea to improve the already well consolidated and successful features of the existing Tornado machine. Thanks to the extensive utilization of servomotor technology, the last limitations have been removed. The core of the TORNADO-EVOlution is a MOTION CONTROLLER with integrated PLC functions. This multitasking CPU can manage simultaneously up to 32 axes. The controller communicates with servo drives and remote I/O through ETHERCAT bus and exchanges data with other devices (operator panel, remote access device, etc.) through Ethernet network. Constructed with a modular system to facilitate rapid size change operations. The reel of packaging material is housed inside the machine, completely enclosed and protected from external contamination; the reel shaft is positioned to permit easy mounting. Basic operations are controlled by motion controller interfaced with a display panel. Touchscreen operator panel (12.1”) [Fig. 2] permit the visualization of the following operations from the control panel: length of sachet, output speed, temperature of sealing jaws and sealing rollers, bag counter, machine alarms, etc. Settings that can be made from the control panel include: length of sachet, output speed, number of sachets to form a group, sealing temperatures, timing for various devices such as printer, vibrator, etc. Photocell mark registration for printed film.  Fig. 2 - Operator panel. 
2.1.2 Applications The packaging machine you have purchased is among the most recent, innovative and efficient manufactured by the company. A device always most developed that is able to adapt to various customer needs thanks to its strength in the quality of the materials selected and the requirements of new technologies applied. Is used for products of different composure, for the most compact and consistent liquid state or the most fluid and liquefied, but also for the solid state in tablets, granules or powders. Each product has its needs, which leads to changes into the mechanical and into the technology design of engineers Boato Pack, using different types of dispensers, and another types of operations. The dimensions of the machine may vary according to the size of the bags in relation to the amount that is necessary by produce. In addition, the machine can also be flanked by lines of packing and packaging, which are designed and adapted by the company, always offering a car tailor-made for each client. 2.1.3  The sachets The sachet that is realized by the machine may have weight and dimensions according to the type of product and the various needs of the customer [Fig. 3]. The sachet is made from a thermo sealable material which is sealed on all 4 sides of the finished product through a system patented by Boato Pack to ensure the best sealing without leakage. The sealing of the sachet may, however, depend on the quality and the number of layers of the packing material.  Fig. 3 - Four side sealed sachets.  IMPORTANT!! To ensure optimum sealing of the sealing made by the machine must ensure optimum cleaning of welded areas.  
2.1.4 Functional description The sachets are formed by the reel of packaging material that is cut, centered and unified from both sides. The product after being loaded on the container in the shape of inverted pyramidal cone, called hopper, is inserted into the bag almost format, just before the pouch is sealed on the top. The bags that are formed in the strip are then cut or stripped according to need and is made out of the machine.      3  
3 INSTALLATION AND SAFETY INSTRUCTIONS           FOREWORD      This section describes the optimal installation of the machine: from the handling of the shipping crate until the placement of the various devices with the corresponding connection to the electricity grid and the pneumatic supply. It also provides instructions for the proper conduct of operations avoiding any injures of the operator or machine’s damages.   
3.1 Installation 
3.1.1 Warnings for the installer The operator in charge of machine installation must be suitably trained and informed about the work to be performed. The operator must use suitable devices to install the equipment under safe conditions. All selected installation tools must be in perfect condition and must be used as recommended by their manufacturers. The operator must know the laws and regulations regarding machinery and environment of use that are deemed to protect him-/herself and the exposed people. The selection of the areas and places suitable for machine installation is important for work quality (maintenance, safety, etc.). This area must be properly lighted and ventilated. The environmental and operating conditions shall not generate any obstacle for accessing the machine controls. Proper machine operation must be guaranteed also with respect to maintenance. Before handling the machine check what follows: 1 Efficiency of the lifting devices. 2 Carrying capacity of the lifting devices. While lifting and shifting the machine take all necessary measures to avoid dangerous motions that could contribute to accidents, injuries to people or damage to the equipment. During lifting avoid sudden movements that could damage the machine. Lift the machine or parts of it by using devices with a minimum carrying capacity higher than the declared weight. Move the equipment very carefully to avoid injuries and damages.  The lifting operations must be carried out by skilled personnel. Make sure that no one is in the dangerous area. Until the units are not completely lifted, check their proper balancing. Lifting can be carried out continuously (without pulses).  Keep the load as lower as possible during shifting to obtain higher load stability. Transport on covered means of transport is recommended for the unpackaged machine. Before shipment the whole material must be carefully checked by the Manufacturer. When receiving the machine, make sure that it was not damaged during transport and that nothing was altered and removed from the inside. In case of damage to the machine or lacking parts, immediately inform the carrier and the Manufacturer by showing them the relevant photos.   During handling the machine must always be in a stable and safe position. During lifting the whole area surrounding the station is to be considered as dangerous.  
3.1.2 Movement of the crate The movement of the crate requires a fork-lift with the following capacity: 1- Capable of lifting 3000 kg (TOV450/480) 2- Capable of lifting 3500kg (TOV600) 3- The prongs must not be less than the lower part of the crate in length (prongs must come out from the opposite side); 4- Distance between the prongs during lifting operations = 1 meter; 5- The unloading operation of the crate requires two people, one to operate the fork-lift and one to guide the operations.      WARNING! PASSAGE OF FORK TRUCKS  WARNING!  SUSPENDED LOADS  WARNING!  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS       ATTENTION!  Wear a protective HELMET to prevent blows to the head during the movement of cash. ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES   The operator who uses the forklift must be competent and able to operate with consciousness on machinery required for installation.  
3.1.3 Opening of the crate The tools required are: 1. Hexagonal spanner 2. Crowbar 3. Shears Two people are required to carry out the following operations: 1- Remove the screws that are marked in RED. 2- Remove the lid and the front panel of the crate. 3- The machine is fixed to the base of the crate by means of wooden beams blocked by fixing screws. Release the machine from the wooden beams. 4- Unpack the other parts that are inside the crate such as hopper, eventual conveyor belts, and sets of spare parts.   WARNING!  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS     ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES 
3.1.4 Moving the machine At this point the machine is ready to be removed from the crate by a fork-lift: 1- Put two planks of wood on the prongs of the fork-lift. 2- Insert the prongs of the fork-lift under the base of the machine [Fig. 4], between the feet so that the prongs come out from the other side of the machine by at least 10 cm. At this point the machine can be lifted by a few centimetres and taken to the position in which it will be placed for working.  Fig. 4 - Positioning of the forks under the machine.    WARNING! PASSAGE OF FORK TRUCKS  WARNING!  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS      ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES   IMPORTANT!! During the lifting operations pay particular attention not to touch fragile points such as plexiglas protections, etc 
3.1.5 Levelling The machine does not need any special base, it must be only positioned on ground and levelled; level it by means of a standard spirit level; it is essential to position the spirit level on the working table.    WARNING! PASSAGE OF FORK TRUCKS  WARNING!  CRUSHING HAZARD OF LIMBS     ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES   IMPORTANT!! During the lifting operations pay particular attention not to touch fragile points such as plexiglass protections, etc  
3.2 Noise level Thanks to the attentive design by engineers Boato Pack the noise level is 78 dB, measured at 1 mt. from the machine at a height of 1.6 meters. According to the UNI EN ISO 3744 workers are not required to wear appropriate personal protective equipment (boots, caps, inserts). 
3.3 Electromagnetic compatibility The packaging machine model TORNADO EVO has been constructed with advanced engineering standards according to the CEI EN 60204 Norms and, in particular, in relation to the Electromagnetic Compatibility, the following items were considered: 1. Utilization of components having the CE mark.     2. Installation and utilization of all components according to the instructions given by the supplier. 3. Utilization of shielded cables for power and low tension, with connection of the screen to Earth from the side of the source. 4. Utilization of cables of a suitable thickness for their purpose. 5. Utilization of protective screens on inputs and outputs of the starters of brushless motors. 6. Insertion of all equipment inside the machine or the electric panel, whose external structures are connected to Earth. 7. Separated wiring of Zero Volts divided according to board (0B), machine (0M) or emergency (0E), their connection in a single equipotential bar (GND) and connection to the Earth bar (PE) by means of a single yellow-green cable with a suitable cross-section. 8. Division of main supplies according to board (VB), machine (VM) and emergency (VE) and their protection by means of suitable-sized fuses. Accordingly, we declare that the machine model TORNADO EVO satisfies the electromagnetic compatibility requirements according to the CEI EN 50081-2 E CEI EN 50082-2 Norms. 
3.4 Power supply connection      WARNING! – CAUTION! HAZARDOUS VOLTAGE Only qualified and trained personnel may install and carry out maintenance operations on this machine. The machine should not be connected to the Power supply until it is ready for operation. The electric circuit that feeds the machine should comply with the CEI 64-8 Norms     PROHIBITION! Never put water on an electrical fire!! PROHIBITION!  Do not perform work before removing the voltage!!   ATTENTION! In case of fire turn off the main power source. Use only CO2 or dry chemical fire extinguisher. 
3.4.1 Connection points for the power supply cable There are two connection points on the electrical cabinet to enter with the power supply cable, one on the top of the cabinet[Fig. 5] and one on the right side[Fig. 6]; do not make any other holes because the cabinet is completely sealed and air-tight and any additional hole can reduce the air-tight integrity.  Fig. 5 - Power connection top entry.  Fig. 6 - Power connection right side entry.  WARNING! – CAUTION! HAZARDOUS VOLTAGE!!   ATTENTION! The operations of connection to the power cables must be done by qualified personnel. 
3.4.2 Internal path of the power cable The internal path of the power cable has to be as short as possible, trunks [Fig. 7] are foreseen for both the connections (from the top or from the right), it is very important not to lay the power cables in the other trunks for a matter of electrical noise, earth connection has to be made directly to the earth copper bar [Fig. 8].  Fig. 7 - Power connection top entry, trunk.  Fig. 8 - Power connection right side entry, trunk and earth connection system. 
3.4.3 Additional interchange signals For the additional interchange signals (i.e. packing, hopper reload) a multiway connector [Fig. 9] is foreseen, please use this connector only and do not make other holes in the cabinet.  Fig. 9 - Additional interchange signals. 
3.4.4 Phases relay sequence  Once the power supply has been connected, the phases sequence control relay [Fig. 10] (coded PSR1) inside the electric cabinet, must have the led “ready” switched on, otherwise it means that one phase is missing or that the phases sequence is wrong. In this case check and if necessary modify the incoming line connection.  Fig. 10 - Phases relay sequence.  IMPORTANT!! Please note that any connection made without respecting the above mentioned rules (with special reference to additional holes in the cabinet, power cable passage out of the foreseen trunks) as well of additional items inside the cabinet, will render void the guarantee of the machine.   3.5  Pneumatic supply  WARNING! - CAUTION! The pneumatic connections should only be effected by a competent person.  Make sure that there is compressed air for working at 6 Bar. Connect the 3/8" air tube to the FRL group [Fig. 11], which is located on the side of the machine where the control panel is.  Fig. 11 - FRL group and digital pressure switch.  Fig. 12 - External connector of pressure air.     
3.6 Positioning of the machine 1. Control the consignment note and the contract; any discrepancy found or claims to be lodged concerning damages or missing materials will only be accepted within 8 (eight) days from the reception of the equipment at the customer's plant. 2. Place the machine in its definitive position in the production plant. Take care that it is set up in a perfectly levelled area with sufficient space around it in order to allow the operator/technician to move freely and easily, both in the preparation and start-up of the machine and in the normal packaging operations. 3. Make the electrical connections and connect the machine to the electrical mains including Neutral and Earth. Pay attention to the type of current and the voltage shown on the labels attached to the equipment. 4. Once the power supply has been connected, the phases sequence control relay (coded -PSR1) inside the electric cabinet, must have the led “ready” switched on, otherwise it means that one phase is missing or that the phases sequence is wrong. In this case check and if necessary modify the incoming line connection. 5. Connect the FRL group at the back of the machine to the compressed air system at a pressure of 6 Bar. 6. Read the Instruction Manual carefully before running the machine. If your staff should require further information or clarifications, our Technical Department is at your complete disposal. 7. Upon ordering spare parts, ALWAYS mention the serial number of the machine in question. 8. The sale terms and conditions are an essential part of the contract: any guarantee given will be automatically annulled if any change to the equipment is made without the manufacturer's prior written consent. Furthermore, the packaging machine may be used only for the product(s) shown in the contract and as per the technical specifications established in the same. 3.7  Safety system The machine is equipped with fixed and mobile safety guard. During manual mode mobile safety guards are disabled but, for safety reasons, machine can move only at low speed. In this case, a safety control speed locks the machine if a motor exceeds the speed limit established.    PROHIBITION! Do not operate with safety guards removed. Do not remove or bypass safety guards.   IMPORTANT!! During normal operations, the opening of mobile safety guards stops the machine.        WARNING! CRUSH HAZARD WARNING! BLADE HAZARD WARNING!  HOT SURFACE When the machine is in manual mode, be careful not to bring or put your hands on the moving parts.      ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES        4    
4 MACHINE DESCRIPTION        FOREWORD     	In this paragraph are described the parts that form the machine with all the features of their functioning. In addition there are also small paragraphs describing the proper adjustment of each part. Some parts listed and described but not installed on the machine you have purchased, will be referred as "optional".   The packaging machine TORNADO EVO is made up of: * Sealing system [Fig. 13.1]. * Packaging material feeder system [Fig. 13.3]. * Electric cabinet[Fig. 13.2] – see chapter 5   Fig. 13 - Tornado EVO_frontal view.  Fig. 14 - Tornado EVO_lateral view. 
4.1 Sealing system The sealing system is made up of: 1- Paper divider 2- First section idle rollers 3- Path adjustment rollers 4- Rubbered rollers 5- Second section idle rollers 6- Hardened rollers 7- Rotating knives 8- Sealing rollers 9- Sealing jaws 10- Squeezing unit 11- Longitudinal cutting 12- Pulling rollers 13- Transversal cutting 14- Guide rollers 15- First sachet deviator 16- Second sachet deviator  Fig. 15 - Sealing system.     
4.1.1 First section idle rollers It is made up of two rollers located at the sealing group sides. They receive the packaging material from the paper divider and they send it towards the rubbered rollers. 
4.1.2 Path adjustment rollers  Fig. 16 - Path adjustment rollers. They permit to independently adjust the path of front and rear side of the wrapping material in order to match the front and rear printing of every single sachet. 
4.1.3 Mark and joint photocells Near the path adjustment rollers on the two sides of the film path there are two photocells used to detect the mark and the joint of the film. - The mark photocell [Fig. 17.1] is placed on the left side of the machine in the internal part of the film path and detects the marks [Fig. 17.2] on the film in order to continuously adjust the phase of the machine to ensure a correct filling, sealing and cutting of the sachets respect to the film drawing.  Fig. 17 - Mark photocell. - The joint photocell [Fig. 18] is placed on the right side of the machine in the external part of the film path and it is used to detect the joint of the material in order to discharge the part of the film with the joint.  Fig. 18 - Joint photocell. ADJUSTMENT The photocells need to properly configure in order to work correctly. The settings of their switching threshold is very easy and must be performed as follow: - Turn the switch in the teach position[Fig. 19.1]; - Put the mark or the joint under the laser beam and press the TEACH button until the Q led flashes[Fig. 19.2]; - Put the laser beam out of the mark or joint and press the TEACH button until the Q led flashes[Fig. 19.3]; - Turn the switch in the run position [Fig. 19.4].   Fig. 19 - Photocells tech-in procedure. After the Teach-in settings the led Q must light up when the mark or the joint passes under the laser beam. 
4.1.4 Rubbered rollers  Fig. 20 - Rubbered rollers, screw. They are located in the upper part of the sealing station, at the very end of it. They are covered by a special anti-slip rubber, whose function is that of driving the packaging material towards the sealing rollers. Each roller axle is held by means of the screw [Fig. 20], by loosening which you can free the roller: the driving of the packaging material will be effected by means of the sealing rollers. 
4.1.5 Second section idle rollers  Fig. 21 - Second section idle rollers. They are located at the upper end of the sealing group, in a position that allows a regular unwinding of the packaging material towards the sealing rollers. 
4.1.6 Rotating knives  Fig. 22 - Hardened rollers and dividing knives. They are located between the rubbered rollers and the second section of idle rollers. The rotating knives [Fig. 22] press on the hardened rollers so as to divide the film in lanes and they are controlled pneumatically by a cylinder. These rollers are made of a very resistant material which guarantees a low grade of wear and tear to the knives and therefore a good counter cut. 
4.1.7 Sealing rollers The sealing rollers allow the longitudinal sachet sealing. Their peripheral speed is equal to the rubbered rollers speed. A resistance inside the bearing axle heats the rollers, while the thermocouple keeps a constant temperature temperature in order to obtain the best possible sealing.  Fig. 23 - Longitudinal sealing station. ADJUSTMENT The pressure of the rollers is effected by two springs which load the right axle. The pressure is adjustable by operating on the screw M10 [ Fig. 24].  Fig. 24 - Sealing rollers and jaws adjustment.    PROHIBITION! DO NOT CARE WITH MOVING  PROHIBITION! DO NOT PERFORM WORK BEFORE REMOVING THE VOLTAGE       WARNING! CRUSH HAZARD WARNING!  BLADE HAZARD WARNING!  HOT SURFACE       ATTENTION! SUITABLE CLOTHES  ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES 
4.1.8 Sealing jaws  Fig. 25 - Sealing jaws. The sealing jaws [Fig. 25] perform the transversal sealing of the sachets. There are also some teeth placed in correspondence of the lateral edges of the sachets, which serve to create the easy tear notch cut on the sachets. Inside the metal rods there are heaters increase the temperature for the sealing. They are composed of two sections moved by a servomotor. The same considerations that have been made about the sealing rollers apply to the heating system of the jaws. The jaws position and speed are continuously calculated by the motion control to perform the sealing in the right horizontal position in accordance with the bag length set on the display and the position of the mark on the film. The home position of the jaws is the point of contact of the two jaws and corresponds to the start of the sealing. This position is set by a cam, on the back of the jaws, controlled by a sensor [Fig. 26]. All machine phases are related to this point. The phasing of the equipment is set from the operator panel with values that are variable between 0,0 mm to a limit phase according to the bag length (tab: the reference point 0,0 mm corresponds to the position of the jaws in the contact point of the lobes).  Fig. 26 - Jaws homing, cam right position. ADJUSTMENT The pressure of the jaws is effected by two springs which load the right axle. Operate on the screws in order to adjust the pressure. To adjust the home position put machine in emergency. Put a 2 mm thickness between the jaws and adjust the iron cam on the back so the proximity sensor reads the falling edge of cam. The sensor must be placed at the end of the cam hole in reading mode, as shown in Fig. 26.    PROHIBITION! DO NOT CARE WITH MOVING  PROHIBITION! DO NOT PERFORM WORK BEFORE REMOVING THE VOLTAGE       WARNING! CRUSH HAZARD WARNING!  BLADE HAZARD WARNING!  HOT SURFACE       ATTENTION! SUITABLE CLOTHES  ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES  NOTE The length range of short bags and long bags depends of the size of jaws and the number of lobes. 4.1.8.a Easy tears notch knives and counterknives    Fig. 27 - Easy tears notch: knives and counterknives. The easy tear notch knives and counter knives [Fig. 27] allow to make the cut on the side flaps of the sachet for the easy opening. The system is composed by metal teeth distributed uniformly on the sides of the sealant part of the jaws. On one of the axes of the jaws are placed the knives that carry out the cut, while in the other axis are located the counter knives. The installation of this cut system on the machine is done by following the specific procedures with a very high precision.    PROHIBITION! DO NOT TOUCH, ADJUST OR REPLACE THE KNIFE USED FOR THE EASY TEARS NOTCH, INSTALLED ON THE JAWS BECAUSE THEY ARE PERFECTLY CALIBRATED AND A LITTLE MOVEMENT CAN DAMAGE THE CORRECT FUNCTIONING OF THE MACHINE. 
4.1.9 Pulling rollers  Fig. 28 - Pulling rollers. Pulling rollers are installed after the jaws, which have the function of pulling the sachets and directing them towards the transversal cutting station. The rollers are moved by a motor located inside the machine body. The two pneumatic cylinders installed at the sides of the roller are used to keep the pressure of the rollers constant with respect to the bags to ensure correct towing. 
4.2 Optional 
4.2.1 UV rays group (optional) UV rays lamp [Fig. 29] are installed between the first and the second group of crazy rollers. They are used for hygiene of packaging material. Lamps are switched on and off by means of selector switches on the HMI device. In case of emergency, the machine automatically removes the power to the lamps. With the doors, however, the lamps will be powered but radiation of the rays will be repaired by the plates installed. Operation is also managed through a page on the display. Maintenance or replacement procedures on the specific manual.   Fig. 29 – UV ray lamps  WARNING! UV RAYS 
4.2.2 Longitudinal cutting after the sealing (optional)  Fig. 30 - Longitudinal cutting after the sealing. This cutting station can be localized between the rollers and the jaws or after both [Fig. 30], according to the characteristics of the sachets to realize. There are different kinds of blades that perform this operation: a straight-blade, which cuts, or a toothed blade used to mark the "strip". The structure consists of two bands. On the first are placed at a certain distance the disc blades, while on the other are placed some discs that act as counter knife, where the blades lean to make the cut. 
4.2.3 ESD Ionizer (optional)  Fig. 31 - ESD Ionizer. An air ionizer [Fig. 31] is a device that uses high voltage to ionize (electrically charge) air molecules. Negative ions, or anions, are particles with one or more extra electrons, conferring a net negative charge to the particle. Cations are positive ions missing one or more electrons, resulting in a net positive charge. Most commercial air purifiers are designed to generate negative ions. The type of air ionizer that we use is called ESD ionizer (balanced ion generator) used to neutralize the static charge. This device reduces the accumulation of static electricity in order to preventing that the sachets remain attached on the walls or on the tracks. 
4.2.4 Breath tube (optional)  Fig. 32 - Breath tube. The breath tubes [Fig. 32] are a machine optional. They are installed in order to cool the sealed zone of the sachet and to clean the small parts of polythene that remained attached between the sachets. This system is usually followed by the longitudinal cutting blades. This option is usually used for the machines in line. 
4.2.5 Sachets divider blades (optional)  Fig. 33 – Sachets divider blades. This is an optional system. It is composed by some knives that are used to separate the sachets that might remained glued. They are also used to remove the filaments of polythene that may have formed after the first cut lengthwise. This option is typically used for the machines in line. 
4.2.6 Sachet guide rollers (optional) They are located in the last section of the sealing system. They guide the sachets so that they fall correctly on the conveyor belt below.  Fig. 34 - Sachet guide rollers. 4.3  Knife and transversal perforation knife (strip) They are used to cuts the sachets transversally and perform the transversal perforation; the knife is located above the deviator and the transversal perforation knife is placed above the sachets divider rollers. They are composed by a knife (left axle, in movement) and a counter knife (right axle, fixed) and they are moved by a servomotor. The motion control calculate the position of knives to cut or perforate the sachet according to the set value on the operator panel.  ADJUSTMENTS The home position of the knives is exactly on the opposite side of counter knife. This position is adjusted by a cam with its proximity sensor. Put the cam in the position shown in Fig. 35.  Fig. 35 - Transversal knife homing, cam right position. The counter knife pressure is adjusted by acting on the screws [Errore. L'origine riferimento non è stata trovata.].  The transversal knife adjustment must be done with the manual commands disabled; with the manual commands enabled the motors are powered and the operation becomes dangerous.     PROHIBITION! DO NOT CARE WITH MOVING  PROHIBITION! DO NOT PERFORM WORK BEFORE REMOVING THE VOLTAGE       WARNING! CRUSH HAZARD WARNING!  BLADE HAZARD WARNING!  HOT SURFACE       ATTENTION! SUITABLE CLOTHES  ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES 
4.4 Deviator It is a deviator [Fig. 36] made up of a two pendular motion slide, anchored at its extremities and pneumatically moved. It is called into action by the PLC when sachets are detected that are made while the doser is off. The deviator discharges the bags in the collecting box or on tape waste bags. When the deviator discharge the bags on the tape waste, the bags are transported out of the machine.  Fig. 36 - Deviator. 
4.5 Packaging material reel   Fig. 37 - Packaging material reel: general.  Fig. 38 - Packaging material reel: adjustments. The packaging material is supplied in reels with external diam. of maximum 600mm and maximum width of 1200mm. The reel is found in the back of the packaging machine, seated upon a bearing which automatically permits the centering of its position. The packaging material follows a set passage during which the reel is unrolled without suffering any tears or abrupt variation in speed. In the last section, before passing to the front side of the packaging machine, the film goes through the print group. ADJUSTMENTS In order to work properly the unwinder needs to be properly adjusted. The system includes some sensors: - probe to measure the diameter of the reel - end of reel sensor - alignment sensors Some parameters must be adjusted from operator panel (see details on operator panel instructions). DIAMETER PROBE ADJUST The rotary sensor determines the position of the probe. To adjust the homing point, put the probe directly above the reel holder (without reel) and, after loosening the locking screw, slowly turn the rotor until the blue light of the traffic light does not turn on fixed. Tighten the locking screw. END OF REEL ADJUST The sensor [Fig. 38.2] controls the presence of the blade device [Fig. 38.3]: when the reel is finishing, the beam [Fig. 37.1] goes down to make the blade [Fig. 38.3] touch the sensor [Fig. 38.2].  Adjust the position of the beam [Fig. 38.1] compared to the blade [Fig. 38.3] in order to set a new position of end of reel. END OF REEL PHOTOCELL (OPTIONAL) An optional optical sensor can be placed to detect exactly the end of reel. This functions should be enabled from operator panel (see details on operator panel instructions). In order to use this system, the manufacturer of reel must place a tape (like a junction) 1.5 meters before the end of film. When the end of reel sensor (see previous chapter) detects a low level of film, the end of reel photocell is enabled. At the first “junction” that will be detected the machine will be stopped. To adjust the settings of the photocell follow the instruction at page 34. REEL CENTERING Adjust the reel centering photocells [Fig. 38.4] support in order to keep the border of the reel in the right position (the dividing knife has to stay exactly in the middle of the reel).     PROHIBITION! DO NOT CARE WITH MOVING  PROHIBITION! DO NOT PERFORM WORK BEFORE REMOVING THE VOLTAGE       WARNING! CRUSH HAZARD WARNING!  BLADE HAZARD WARNING!  HOT SURFACE       ATTENTION! SUITABLE CLOTHES  ATTENTION!  SAFETY FOOTWEAR ATTENTION!  PROTECTIVE GLOVES  
4.5.1 Printer group (OPTIONAL) The hardware predisposition of the printer is composed by a motor that moves the inkjet cart along a rail, under the reel, performing an horizontal movement near the packing material in order to print on it.                5  
5 CONTROL PANEL      FOREWORD       This section describes all the features and functionality of the operator panel from the physical description of the interface to the functionality of each screen. There is also a description of each command with the distinction between the buttons on which we can make changes and buttons on which we can only read the values from the machine.   
5.1 Description of the control panel The control panel [Fig. 39] is the device that allows the user to interface with the machine controlling and setting machine’s parameters. We can determine and edit the timing of production, the size and quantity, etc. The panel is placed on the right side of the car, outside the control cabinet. We can divide the panel into two parts:  - The hardware part, placed in the low part of the panel that consists of all the electrical components such as buttons and switches and acts on the main electrical controls of the machine. - The panel PC, a touch screen display that allows to edit and display any type of setting.     
5.1.1 Traffic light  A four colors (green, yellow, red and blue) traffic light [Fig. 40] is located above the control panel. It’s provided with a siren with adjustable volume. It represents the different states of the machines:  Blinking green	Ready to start Green 			Running Yellow			End of product  Blue              		End of reel Blinking red		Presence of alarm(s) Red			Emergency  An acoustic signal is emitted at the start and the stop of the machine and when the machine stops because of an alarm.  
5.2 Hardware commands The hardware control panel consists of buttons and switches that manage the security emergency, start / stop, reset, and manual control devices applied to the machine. These commands are placed outside the panel PC because they must be quickly accessible without having to browse through the page of the display. In the following part there is a list of all the hardware command with their own functions:  START This button is used to start the machine and it is usually placed at the beginning of the first row. It is a bright electric green button that can be pressed when the machine is ready to start the production. The button lights up for a moment when pressed by the operator and blinks repeatedly when I interrupt the production until the machine is completely stopped. STOP This button is used to stop the machine and is usually placed under the start button. When the button is pressed the machine doesn’t stop immediately but it will stop in a certain moment of the cycle. It is an electric button that doesn’t light up and can be pressed only when the machine is in motion. ON/OFF  This selector allows the user to switching on and off of the machine. It is a two-state switch, which lights up when the machine is set on. When the user turn off the machine there is a safety system that shut down the main part of the electronic panel in a safe manner. EMERGENCY This is a special electric button that set the emergency conditions switching off all the movable parts of the machine. It must be used in case of emergency or for maintenance operations which do not need to remove voltage. When the machine is ready to restart it can be disabled by turning the key. RESET This button is used to reset the emergency conditions. After an emergency stop the machine must be reset before it can be restarted. Before pushing this button remember to unlock the emergency stop button and wait until the button light up.  DOSER UP/DOWN (OPTIONAL)  This is a key switch that allows the operator to manually adjust the vertical position of the entire doser structure. STRIP AUTO/MANUAL (OPTIONAL) This selector allows the user to switching the machine mode. It is a two-state switch, which lights up when the machine is set in manual mode. When the machine is set in automatic mode the knife and the strip run as set in the operator’s panel. When it is set in manual mode the machine performs only strip and the knife remains locked. JAWS DISABLE ON/OFF (OPTIONAL)) This selector allows the operator to enable or disable the jaw rotation. This feature allows you to create tubes of packaging material for the cleaning of the injection tubes. LAMP UV GROUP # (OPTIONAL) These switches allow the operator to turn on or turn off the UV lamps. LIGHT JAWS (OPTIONAL) This selector allows to switch On or Off the light near the jaws. ASPIRATOR (OPTIONAL) This selector allows the user to switch On or Off the related aspirator. 
5.3 Panel PC The panel PC [Fig. 41] enables the operator to interact with the machine in a practical and fast way, setting the desired parameters and displaying the data of the machine. After turning on the machine, with the ON / OFF switch, the panel PC displays its presentation page. Then we can do the log in and start the operations.   Fig. 41 - Panel PC.  
5.3.1 Presentation page The first page is called presentation page and is composed by different icons arranged along the outer perimeter of the display. The row of icons on the top of the display represents the state of the machine during production. The bottoms at the low part of the screen. The buttons on the left allow the operator to enable or disable the main part of the machine, the buttons on the right side allow the operator to change HMI pages.  Screen 1 - Presentation page. 5.3.1.a Status bar The status bar is formed by icons read-only which change their color depending on the status of the components of the machine. The status bar consists of the following icons:  EMERG. This icon reports when the machine is put in emergency by pushing the emergency stop button. It blinks red when the emergency button has just been pressed and the drivers are discharging and then, when the drivers are discharged remains fixed on the red light. When the emergency button is released it turns green.   DOORS This icon reports the status of the doors of the machine. If one of the doors is opened, the machine automatically enters the emergency, and the icon turns from green to red. The red light blinks until the drivers are discharged, then remains fixed. AIR This icon reports the pressure of the compressed air. It turns from green to red when the pressure of the compressed air inside the machine is too low. The pressure is also controlled by the digital pressure switch placed inside the machine. REEL This icon reports the status of the supply reel of packaging material. If the coil is going to finish the icon blinks red; when it is finished the machine stops and the icon remains fixed on the red light.  PRODUCT This icon reports the status of the product inside the hopper.  If the sensor detect that the product is about to finish the icons blinks red and after a certain number of cycles the machine stops in alarm.  TIMING This icon blinks green when the system is counting the delay time to allow the start the machine and stay fixed on green when the machine is ready to start. ALARMS This icon reports any type of malfunctioning of the machine. It blinks red when an alarm occurs and the machine is automatically stopped. By clicking on it you can reach the alarms page, from every page.  5.3.1.a.a Status bar colors  RED BLINKING RED GREEN GREEN BLINKING YELLOW BLINKING EMERG. EMERGENCY PRESSED, DRIVERS DISCHARGING EMERGENCY PRESSED, DRIVERS ALREADY DISCHARGED EMERGENCY RELEASED // // DOORS SAFETY PROTECTION OPENED, DRIVERS DISCHARGING SAFETY PROTECTION OPENED, DRIVERS ALREADY DISCHARGED SAFETY PROTECTION CLOSED OR BY-PASSED // // ALARMS PRESENCE OF NOT ACKNOWLEDGED ALARMS // NO PRESENCE OF ALARMS // PRESENCE OF WARNING AIR // AIR PRESSURE LOW AIR PRESSURE NORMAL // // REEL REEL ALMOST FINISHED END OF REEL REEL AVAILABLE // // PRODUCT PRODUCT LEVEL LOW // PRODUCT LEVEL GOOD // // TIMING // // THE MACHINE IS READY TO START SYSTEM IS COUNTING THE DELAY TIME TO ALLOW THE START OF THE MACHINE // Tab. A  - status bar colour _operator panel. 5.3.1.b Left bar The left bar is composed by some buttons used to enable or disable the main parts of the machine. Before using these buttons, you must have done the log in at the level 1 or an higher level. MARK This button enables the mark control that allow the machine to adjust the centering of the picture in a completely automatic way according to the size of the bag that has been set by the operator. DOSER This button brings the doser group into action. When the machine is turned on, with the sealing system already started, the operator can choose to enable or disable the dosing unit located on top of the machine.  HEATERS This button allows the operator to enable or disable the heating elements contained inside the bars that form the sealing station. The temperature is always monitored and kept under control to avoid the excessive temperatures and the melting of the packaging material. The temperature value is set by the operator from the panel PC. ROTATING KNIVES This button enables and disables the rotating knives that are placed just before the rolls and are used to cut paper into strips. The series of rotating blades is controlled and operated pneumatically. ASPIRATOR (OPTIONAL) This button enables the aspirator that is located above the doser. It is optional because it can be used only on machines with a powder doser, on which there may be loss of the product that could end up on the sealing system causing malfunctioning. PRINTER (OPTIONAL) This button enables or disables the printer placed inside the machine that prints on the reel. All the machines have electrical and software predisposition for the printer, but it is considered optional because it is at request of the customer. REEL CENTERING This button enables or disables the automatic centering of the coil on the left.  REEL RIGHT ARROW This button moves the reel to the right (the direction of the shift is defined by the frontal view of the machine). REEL LEFT ARROW This button moves the reel to the left (the direction of the shift is defined by the frontal view of the machine). 5.3.1.b.a Bottom bar colours Buttons colour changes to show the status of the functions.  OFF GREEN BLINKING GREEN RED BLINKING RED MARK DISABLED ENABLED: THE MACHINE IS CORRECTING THE POSITION OF BAG. ENABLED: THE MARK IS INSIDE THE ACCEPTABLE RANGE OF ERROR. // // DOSER DISABLED // ENABLED // // HEATERS DISABLED // ENABLED: THE TEMPERATURES ARE INSIDE THE ALLOWED RANGE. // ENABLED: THE TEMPERATURES ARE OUTSIDE THE ALLOWED RANGE. ROTATING KNIVES DISABLED // ENABLED // // ASPIRATOR (OPTIONAL) DISABLED // ENABLED // // PRINTER (OPTIONAL) DISABLED // ENABLED // // REEL ATOMATIC CENTERING DISABLED // ENABLED OUT OF THE ALLOWED RANGE // REEL LEFT ARROW (OPTIONAL) NOT MOVING LEFT // MOVING LEFT  // // REEL RIGHT ARROW (OPTIONAL) NOT MOVING RIGHT // MOVING RIGHT // // Tab. B – Bottom bar colours_ operator panel.   5.3.1.c Right bar   The right bar is formed by buttons that allows the operator to move to other screen of the panel. These buttons change depending on the page where we are. In the following part are explained the functions of all this buttons. TORNADO This button allows the operator to move to the main operations page that conduces to all the other pages of the tornado machine.  TIME SETUP This button allows the operator to move to the time setup menu, where it possible to set the time and the date and synchronize it with the PLC time. LANGUAGE This button allows the operator to move to the Language page where he can selects the desired language for the panel PC. RECIPES (Level 3) This button allows the operator to move to the recipes page. A recipe is an entire package of machine configurations that can be saved in this page and recalled in a second moment. We can also save more than one recipes. COUNTERS This button allows the operator to access the counters page that contains all the operations and processing times. STATISTIC COUNTERS (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the statistic counter page, that shows all the statistic parameters regarding times and ratio that can be managed remotely.    
5.3.2 Languages page The selected page is used to set the language of the operator panel. It consists of a list of the available languages that can be selected by clicking the right button.   Screen 2 - Languages page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS  ENGLISH The selected button changes the panel language to English. ESPAÑOL (OPTIONAL)  The selected button changes the panel language to Spanish. PORTUGUÊS (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to Portuguese. ITALIANO (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to Italian. FRANCAIS (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to Fran
ais. TURK (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to Turk.	 DEUTSCH (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to German. CHINESE (OPTIONAL) The selected button changes the panel language to Chinese. BACK The selected button allows the operator to return to the previous page, in this case the presentation page. 
5.3.3 Recipes  In this page the operator can save entire packages of machine data of a certain type of production, creating a recipe. The recipe can also be modified and recalled at any time. This procedure was designed in order to speed up the format change procedures.   Screen 3 - Recipes page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS  LOAD FROM FILE This button allows the operator to load the recipe selected in the white boxes, moving the values from the recipe to the actual values. A confirmation page appears in order to ask for confirmation. SAVE TO FILE This button allows the operator to save the current recipe with the number and the name selected in the white boxes. A confirmation page appears in order to ask for confirmation. DELETE FILE This button allows the operator to delete the recipe selected in the white boxes. A confirmation page appears in order to ask for confirmation. PREVIOUS FILE This button decrease the number of the selected recipe in order to select the right           recipe easily. NEXT FILE This button increase the number of the selected recipe in order to select the right recipe easily. RECIPES BACKUP This button allows the operator to move to the recipes backup page where he can download the recipes from the CPU or upload them to the CPU.  BACK The selected button allows the operator to return to the previous page. ACTUAL DATA  ACTUAL RECIPE This parameter shows the number and the name of the current recipe. MESSAGES This box shows the messages related to the actual recipe. SET DATA   RECIPE FILE Entering a number and a name inside these two set boxes the operator can select the recipes to load, save or delete.       	        Screen 4 - loading confirmation page.			Screen 5 - saving confirmation page.  Screen 6 - deleting confirmation page.   
5.3.4 Recipes backup page In this page the operator can download the recipes from the CPU or upload them to the CPU using the selected folder.    Screen 7 - Recipes backup page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS  EXPORT This button allows the operator to download the recipe files from the CPU and put them inside the specified folder. IMPORT ALL This button allows the operator to upload all the recipe files from the specified folder to the CPU. IMPORT ONE This button allows the operator to upload one recipe files from the specified folder to the CPU. BACK The selected button allows the operator to return to the previous page. SET DATA   LOCAL FOLDER Whit this white box the operator can select the local folder from which upload the recipes to the CPU or to which download the recipes from the CPU. 5.3.4.a Save and restore data from external disc In the recipes backup page it is possible to save and restore data from an external disc such as a USB Flash drive following these instructions.  - Press “Browse local folder” and select the desired folder inside the external disc.  Screen 8 - Recipes backup on external disc. - Selected the destination the label shows the path of the folder. Then press the download button to download the data from the CPU to the external disc or the upload button to upload the data from the external disc to the CPU.   
5.3.5 Statistic counters page This page shows all the production data of the machine of the current remote registration. This data can be saved or reset according to the needs of the production, by a remote modbus server (optional).  Screen 9 - Statistic counters page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS  BACK This button allows the operator to return to the previous page, in this case the presentation page. ACTUAL DATA  TIME ON This parameter indicates how long the machine is stayed available in this registration, that is when it is putted on but the production has not been started. TIME RUN This parameter indicates how many minutes the machine is stayed in production in this registration. RUN/ON RATIO This parameter indicates the percentage of use of the machine according to the time of ignition (working time / available time) * 100. FILLED SACHETS This parameter indicates the number of filled sachets made by the machine. TOTAL SACHETS This parameter indicates the total number of sachets made ??by the machine (filled sachets + empty sachets). FILLED/TOTAL RATIO This parameter indicates the percentage of filled sachets compared to the total number of sachets: (filled sachets / total sachets) * 100. TIME EMERGENCY This parameter indicates how long the machine is remained in emergency during this registration. TIME ACTIVE ALARM This parameter indicates how long the machine is remained in alarm during this registration. TIME STOPPED This parameter indicates how long the machine has been stopped during this registration.  
5.3.6 Counters page This page contains all the operations times and the processing time of the machine and it is used to get an overview of the production parameters such as the machine times or the number of sachets produced.   Screen 10 - Counters page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ALARMS This button enable the operator to jump to the alarms page in order to check the active alarms BACK This button allows the operator to return to the previous page, in this      case the presentation page. RESET This button resets the sachets partial counters.    	 	 ACTUAL DATA TORNADO MACHINE ON TIME Turn-on time of the machine from the commissioning. TORNADO MACHINE RUNNING TIME Running time of the machine from the commissioning. TORNADO HEATERS RUNNING TIME Running time of the heaters from the commissioning. TORNADO DOSER RUNNING TIME Running time of the doser from the commissioning.  TOTAL COUNTERS They count the number of sachets produced from the commissioning. These counters cannot be reset. The counters are the following: Total It counts the total amount of the bags produced by the packaging machine. Filled It counts the total amount of the filled bags produced by the packaging machine. Empty It counts the total amount of the empty bags produced by the packaging machine.  PARTIAL COUNTERS They count the number of sachets produced from the last reset. These counters can be reset by the “reset” button. The counters are the following: Total It counts the total amount of the bags produced by the packaging machine from last reset. Filled It counts the total amount of the filled bags produced by the packaging machine from the last reset. Empty It counts the total amount of the empty bags produced by the packaging machine from the last reset.  
5.3.7 Time Setup page  Screen 11 - Time settings page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS SET HMI DATE (Level 3) After clicking this button, the operator must enter the right date inside the date white box. Then he can click the button and the new date is set. SET HMI TIME (Level 3) After clicking this button, the operator must enter the right time inside the time white box. Then he can click the button and the new time is set. SYNC WITH HMI (Level 3) This button sets to the controller (PLC) the same date and the same time of the display BACK This button allows the operator to return to the previous page, in this case the shift counters page. SET DATA   UPS SHUTDOWN TIME With this box the operator can set the time that the UPS must keep the machine on after a power supply lack.     
5.3.8 Login page To access to the User info screen, click on the “User” box on the upper right side, from any page.    When the operator does the login as Level 4 the “Users manager” key is shown. LOGIN This function key allows the operator to enter the desired security level [] in order to be able to perform certain tasks. If the username and password are correct, the registered username will appear on all the screens inside the box above the log in button. LOGOUT This function key allows the operator to log out from previously registered user.  CHANGE PASSWORD With this button you can change the password of the active user (if the function is enabled for that specific user) USERS MANAGER Open the Users Manager page (visible with level 4 user active)  Only qualified and trained personnel may manage user accounts.  User manager is used to manage the users that can access the machine. It’s possible to add users, remove users, change passwords and change security level. On left column is shown the list of operators.  When a Group is selected, on the right column is possible to edit its name and description. It is also possible to delete it (and all the users linked to this group).  When an operator is selected, on the right column is possible to edit the username, the password and the security level.   By clicking on “Advanced Options” tab is possible to change some options as the automatic logoff.   IF ALL LEVEL 4 USERS WILL BE DELETED OPERATOR PANEL WILL NO LONGER BE ACCESSIBLE  Each page shows also some buttons to control all machine functions and some editable fields to change the value of parameters. Buttons and editable fields are usable from operator according to his security level. When a button or editable field is pressed, if the operator has not the necessary security level, a login page is shown. 
5.3.9 Security level According the security level, the operations permitted are: - Level 0 (No login): only page change - Level 1: like level 0 plus function key handling - Level 2: like level 1 plus access to set parameters - Level 3: like level 2 plus access to supervisor functions - Level 4: supervisor level: only for users management The factory default users are: LEVEL NAME PASSWORD 1 op1 000001 2 op2 000002 3 op3 000003 4 op4 000004                 ATTENTION! Incorrect use of level 4 may result in the cancellation of all accounts making the operator panel inoperable. Only qualified and trained personnel may manage user accounts. Level 4 password must be managed only by supervisors.    
5.3.10 Main page This is the first page that appear after the presentation page and it leads to all the other pages of the program.  There are also displayed all the main production parameters such as the number of sachets, the devices temperatures etc.  Screen 12 - Main page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS DOSER      This button allows the operator to jump to the doser selection page. MARK This button allows the operator to jump to the mark centering page. KNIFE This button allows the operator to jump to the knife page. HEAT This button allows the operator to jump to the heaters page. PACKING This button allows the operator to jump to the packing page. PRINT (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to jump to the printer page SQUEEZ STATION (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to jump to the squeezing station page. UV LAMP This button allows the operator to jump to the UV lamp page. HOME This button allows the operator to return to the presentation page. RESET This button resets the partials bag counters. SET This button is used to set a new bag length to the actual bag length. Before clicking this button enter the new bag length into the white set box.  SET DATA SPEED (c/m) Enter the desired speed into the white set box in order to set a new speed of the machine. BAG LENGTH (mm) Enter the new bag length into the white set box and then push the set button in order to set it. This value could be modified only when the machine is stopped. SEAL SPEED RATIO (%) Over speed/under speed set of jaws during sealing. ACTUAL DATA SPEED (c/m) This icon shows the actual speed of the machine in cycles per minute. BAG LENGHT (mxm) This icon shows the actual bag length calculated with the mark photocell. ACTUAL TEMPERATURE This table shows the actual temperatures of the rolls and the jaws. COUNTERS TOTAL It’s the total amount of bags produced by the packaging machine. This value cannot be reset. PARTIAL It’s the total amount of bags produced; it can be reset by pressing Reset key function. FILLED It’s the total amount of filled bags produced; it can be reset by pressing Reset key function. EMPTY     It’s the total amount of empty bags produced; it can be reset by pressing Reset key function. 	  There could be a certain difference between the set and real value of the speed due to calculation tolerance of the PLC.  The actual “bag length” could be different of set if the mark is not enabled.  Before to enable mark bag length value should be stable. 5.3.11  Mark page When the mark control is enabled the controller adjusts automatically the seal position in order to centre the image on the sachet according the mark phase detection value.   Screen 13 - Mark page. PAGE FUNCTIONS KEYS FILM JOINT ENABLE  (OPTIONAL) This button is used to enable or disable the film joint function. AVERAGE MODE This button is used to enable or disable the average mode for the mark regulation. It is not normally visible, because this mode is normally used only with particular film type that shows problem with normal mark functioning. FILM JOINT ENABLE 2,3  (OPTIONAL) This button is used to enable the film joint function on reel 2 and 3if present. BACK This button allows the operator to return to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA MARK PHASE DETECTION (mm) Set of mark position compared to the transversal sealing: the set value refers to the jaws position when the mark is detected. WAIT CYCLES (OPTIONAL) Number of cycles to wait from joint detection on the photocell REJECT CYCLES (OPTIONAL) Number of cycles to keep the doser disabled while the joint is passing through the feeding area. REJECT DISTANCE (OPTIONAL) Number of cycles from the doser to the deviator. ADDITIONAL UNWINDER WAIT (OPTIONAL) Additional cycles to wait for reel 2 and 3 management. ACTUAL DATA ACTUAL BAG LENGTH (mm) Actual bag length; this value could be automatically modified by the mark centering control. ACTUAL MARK POSITION ERROR Actual error (difference between the set mark position and the real one).  5.3.11.a Joint detected window (optional) If this option is enabled, when the joint is detected, the following window appear showing the joint tracking status.      Screen 14 - Film joint detected. NOTE The mark control acts on the film speed to centre the spot. Small correction are made at every machine cycle. If these corrections are not enough to correct the error (shown in the field “Actual mark position error”), the control starts to modify the bag length in order to reach the correct conditions. This sequence could take a certain time especially the first time that the mark control is activated on a new format. Once the “Bag length” value is stable, the error will become small and the “MARK” led will become green. The final value of the “Bag length” should differ of a certain amount from the real measured value. Leave the “Bag length value” as it is to allow the machine to work in the correct way. After the situation has become stable you could start to modify the phase value if necessary to place the mark in the desired position on the sachet.     
5.3.12 Heaters page  This is the heaters control page. From this page the operator can control and modify all the temperatures related to the jaws and the rolls.  Screen 15 - Heaters page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS HEATERS OPTIONAL	 This button allows the operator to move to the heaters optional page. TUBE HEATERS (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the tube heaters page. TREND	 This button allows the operator to move to the heaters trend page. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA ROLLS SET (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature of the left and right rolls. JAWS SET (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature of the left and right jaws. RANGE SET LIMIT (°C) With this function key the operator can set the limit to consider the actual temperatures inside an acceptable range DROP DOWN ROLLS With this function key the operator can set the value add to the rolls set temperature every time the machine start (subtracting it every time the machine stop) DROP DOWN JAWS With this function key the operator can set the value add to the jaws set temperature every time the machine start (subtracting it every time the machine stop) ACTUAL DATA ROLLS ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of the left and right rolls. JAWS ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of the left and right jaws.  
5.3.13 Tube heaters page (optional) This is the heaters control page. From this page the operator can control and modify the temperature related to the heated tubes.  Screen 16 – Tube heaters page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ENABLE This button allows the operator to enable the tube heating system. TUBE 1, 2, 3… This button allows the operator to move to enable the single tube line. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA SET (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature of the tubes. RANGE SET LIMIT (°C) With this function key the operator can set the limit to consider the actual temperatures inside an acceptable range ACTUAL DATA TUBES ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of each tube. 	 
5.3.14 Heaters trend page This page contains a graph that displays the trend of the temperatures of all the machine parts. With the check box the operator can enable or disable the monitoring of each parameter. With the white buttons in the low part of the graph the operator can stop the monitoring of the parameters and move along the graph controlling the values in different part of it.  Screen 17 - Heaters trend page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page.    
5.3.15 Heaters Optional page (optional) This is the heaters optional page. From this page the operator can control and modify all the temperatures related to the optional part of the doser. In the panel are visible only the optional that are provided on the specific machine. PID 7 is not used.  Screen 18 - Heaters page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS WATER ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button enables the heater and the control of the water. PRODUCT ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button enables the heater and the control of the product. PIPES ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button enables the heater and the control of the pipes. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA WATER SET DATA (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature of the water that flow through the doser. PRODUCT SET DATA (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature that should have the product. PIPES SET DATA (°C) Enter a value inside the white boxes the operator can set the temperature that should have pipes. WATER RANGE (°C) With this function key the operator can set the limit to consider the actual water temperatures inside an acceptable range. If the actual temperature goes out of the range, the machine gives an alarm. PRODUCT RANGE (°C) With this function key the operator can set the limit to consider the actual product temperatures inside an acceptable range. If the actual temperature goes out of the range, the machine gives an alarm. PIPES RANGE (°C) With this function key the operator can set the limit to consider the actual pipes temperatures inside an acceptable range. If the actual temperature goes out of the range, the machine gives an alarm. ACTUAL DATA WATER ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of the water. PRODUCT ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of the inlet product. PIPES ACTUAL (°C) This is the actual temperature of the pipes.   
5.3.16 Packing page In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the deviator. It is also possible to move to all the pages of the different belts and infeed belt.  Screen 19 - Packing page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS AUTO SAMPLING (OPTIONAL) This button enable automatic sampling. MANUAL SAMPLING (OPTIONAL) This button allows to start a sampling. ALWAYS OFF LINE This button forces the deviator in reject position. IONIZER ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button enables the ionizer. RESET COUNTER (OPTIONAL) This button resets the sampling counter. PULLING ROLLS (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the pulling rolls page. INFEED (OPTIONAL)	 This button allows the operator to move to the infeed page. BELT 1 (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the belt 1 page. BELT 2 (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the belt 2 page. BELT 3 (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the belt 3 page. BELT 4 (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the belt 4 page. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA DEVIATOR ON LINE CYCLES Number of cycles to count before switching the deviator on line after the doser has started to work DEVIATOR ON LINE PHASE (mm) Phase to switch deviator on line DEVIATOR OFF LINE CYCLES Number of cycles to count before switching the deviator off line after the doser has stopped to work DEVIATOR OFF LINE PHASE (mm) Phase to switch deviator off line INTERVAL (OPTIONAL) Number of cycles to count before switching the deviator to the sampling position. N° OF SAMPLING (OPTIONAL) Number of cycles to sample. ACTUAL DATA COUNTER ACTUAL VALUE (cycles) Actual value of the counter. INTERVAL (cycles) Actual value of the counter for the sampling. N° OF SAMPLES (cycles) Actual value of the counter of sampled cycles. NOTE The counter counts “cycles” and not single sachets. This means that every group of sachet will be made of a certain number of cycles; the amount of sachets will depend of the machine lanes number.   
5.3.17 Pulling rolls page (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the pulling roller   Screen 20 – Pulling rolls page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS AUTO This button set the pulling rolls operating mode in automatic. MANUAL CLOSE This button allows the operator to force the rollers to close or open. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA RATIO This box allows the operator to set the speed ratio of the pulling roller. ACTUAL DATA POSITION ERROR This bar allows the operator to see the position error of the relative pulling rolls. If the position error is too high (red) it means that the pressure of the pulling rollers is too high.  	    
5.3.18 Infeed page (type 1 - optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the infeed.   Screen 21 – Infeed type 1 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS INFEED ENABLE This button allows the operator to enable the infeed belt settings. INFEED HOMING This button perform the homing of the infeed. ENABLE OUTGOING SACHET CHECK SETTINGS This button enables the photocells that check the presence of the outgoing sachet in the correct phase. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA INFEED HOMING OFFSET Offset position after the homing of the infeed belt. START CHECK PHASE Start phase of the ougoing sachet check system. STOP CHECK PHASE Stop phase of the ougoing sachet check system.    
5.3.19 Infeed page (type 2 optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the infeed.   Screen 22 – Infeed type 2 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS INFEED ENABLE This button allows the operator to enable the infeed belt settings. INFEED HOMING This button perform the homing of the infeed. EMPTYING This button allows to empty the belt, when the machine is stopped. HOPPER 1 BOX/HOPPER 3 BOXES These buttons must be set basing on which hopper there is at the end of the infeed belt (1 box or 3 boxes) BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA INFEED HOMING OFFSET Offset position after the homing of the infeed belt. INFEED BELT SPEED Infeed belt speed during the step. INFEED ACCELERATION Infeed acceleration during the step. INFEED DECELERATION Infeed deceleration during the step.   
5.3.20 Infeed page (type 3 optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the infeed.   Screen 23 – Infeed type 3 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS INFEED ENABLE This button allows the operator to enable the infeed belt settings. RESET COUNTER This button allows to reset the counter value. EMPTYING This button allows to empty the belt, when the machine is stopped. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA COUNTER VALUE Number of machine cycles inside a single infeed box DELAY Delay of the movement after the counter value reached the set. DURATION Duration of the stop after the counter value reached the set. INFEED BELT SPEED Speed of the infeed belt. INFEED ACCELERATION Acceleration of the indeed belt. INFEED DECELERATION Deceleration of the infeed belt.    
5.3.21 Infeed settings page (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the packing with the infeed settings.  Screen 24 – Infeed settings page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS RESET COUNTERS This button reset all the counters. EMPTING BELT This button perform a full emptying of the infeed belt. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the main page. SET DATA CYCLES PER GROUP  SET Number of cycles per group. CLOSING DELAY Delay time before the grouping flap is closed. CLOSING TIME Closing time of the grouping flap. GROUPS PER STEP  SET Number of groups per step. MOVING DELAY Delay time after the groping is done before the infeed moves. MOVING TIME Bag presence in the hopper check time, during the infeed movement. HOPPERS PER BOX  SET Number of hopper discharge per box CHANGE BOX DELAY Delay time after the last hopper discharge to let the full box move out. EMPTY BOX RELEASE DELAY Delay after the full box is realised, to let the empty box to come.  
5.3.22 Belt 1 (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the belt 1.   Screen 22 – Belt 1 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ENABLE This button enable the packing system. PACKING MODE CYCLE This button allows the operator to choose how to increase the counter. RESET COUNTERS This button reset the counter value. BELT START DOSER This button set the start of the belt movement (with machine or with doser) BELT MODE AUTO This button allows the operator to start manually the belt, even with the machine stopped. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA COUNTER VALUE This box allows the operator to set the counter value COUNTER 2 VALUE (OPTIONAL) This box allows the operator to set the counter value of the second hopper. DELAY This box allows the operator to set the activation delay of the hopper. DURATION This box allows the operator to set the activation time of the hopper. BELT SPEED (OPTIONAL) This box allows the operator to set the speed of the belt. ACTUAL DATA POSITION ERROR This bar allows the operator to see the position error of the relative pulling rolls. If the position error is too high (red) it means that the pressure of the pulling rollers is too high.  
5.3.23 Belt 2 (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the belt 2.   Screen 26– Belt 2 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS BELT MODE AUTO This button allows the operator to start manually the belt, even with the machine stopped. ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button enable the box agitator. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA BELT SPEED  (OPTIONAL) This box allows the operator to set the speed ratio of the pulling roller. SPEED This box allows the operator to set the speed of the box agitator. ACTUAL DATA POSITION ERROR This bar allows the operator to see the position error of the relative pulling rolls. If the position error is too high (red) it means that the pressure of the pulling rollers is too high.  
5.3.24 Belt 3 (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the belt 3.  Screen 27 – Belt 3 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS BELT MODE AUTO This button allows the operator to start manually the belt, even with the machine stopped. ENABLE This button enable the box agitator. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA BELT SPEED This box allows the operator to set the speed of the belt 3. STACKER POSITION This box allows the operator to set position of the stacker device. STACKER PAUSE This box allows the operator to set the pause duration time. STACKER SPEED This box allows the operator to set the speed of the stacker device.    
5.3.25 Belt 4 (optional) In this page the operator can modify all the settings related to the belt 4.   Screen 28 – Belt 4 page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ENABLE This button enables the packing system. BELT MODE AUTO This button allows the operator to start manually the belt, even with the machine stopped. RESET COUNTER This button allows the operator to reset the packing counter. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA COUNTER VALUE This box allows the operator to set the counter value DELAY This box allows the operator to set the activation delay of the hopper. DURATION This box allows the operator to set the activation time of the hopper. BELT SPEED This box allows the operator to set the speed of the belt 4.    
5.3.26 Knife page  In this page the operator can modifies the knife settings.   Screen 29 - Knife page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ALWAYS CUT (OPTIONAL) This button sets the machine to cut always single sachets. ALWAYS PERFORATE (OPTIONAL) This button sets the machine to makes always transversal perforation. STRIP (OPTIONAL) This button sets the machine to makes strips according to “Bags per strip” set. BACK This button moves to the previous page. SET DATA PHASE Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the cut knife phase value. It is used to adjust the position of cut on the empty sachet. PHASE WITH DOSER Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the cut knife phase value when the doser is working (full sachet). BAGS PER STRIP (OPTIONAL) Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the number of bag per each single strip. It depends of how many bags are requested to be in one single strip. STRIP PHASE (OPTIONAL) Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the transversal perforation knife phase value. It is used to adjust the position of transversal perforation on the sachet. STRIP PHASE WITH DOSER (OPTIONAL) Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the strip knife phase value when the doser is working (full sachet). PERPENDICULAR ADJUSTMENT FACTOR  (OPTIONAL) Entering a value in this box the operator modifies the knife speed during the cut phase, in order to obtain the correct perpendicular cut.  
5.3.27 Doser selection page This is the page that leads to all the other page related to the doser.   Screen 30 - Doser selection page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS LIQUID DOSER (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the liquid doser page. POWDER DOSER (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the powder doser page. WT DOSER (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the WT doser page. AGITATOR (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the agitator page. LINE This button leads to the line page. LEVEL CONTROL (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the level control page. LIQUID OPTIONALS (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the liquid doser optionals page. POWDER OPTIONALS (OPTIONAL) This button leads to the powder doser optionals page. BACK This button leads to the previous page, in this case the main page.    5.3.28  Agitator page (optional) This page is used to enable or disable the agitator and modify its functioning mode.  Screen 31 - Agitator page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS AGITATOR ENABLE This button enables the agitator according to “Agitator mode” setting. AGITATOR MODE With this button the operator can choose if the agitator has to run always (ALWAYS) or when the machine is running and the doser is in operation (WITH DOSER). AGITATOR DIRECTION (OPTIONAL)  This button changes the direction of the hopper agitator: CLOCKWISE or COUNTERCLOCKWISE. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the doser selection page. SET DATA AGITATOR SPEED (OPTIONAL) With this set box the operator can modify the agitator speed. ACTUAL DATA AGITATOR RUN MODE Show when the agitator is on. AGITATOR ROTATION DIRECTION (OPTIONAL) Show which direction of rotation the agitator has.  
5.3.29 In line page This page is used to modify the parameters related to the unwider settings.  Screen 32 - In line page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS JUNCTION ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This ON/OFF button enables the end of reel junction photocell. BACK This button move to the previous page, in this case the doser selection page. ACTUAL DATA REEL ACTUAL DIAMETER Actual value of diameter (%). SET DATA PRE-END OF REEL DIAMETER When the reel diameter drops below the set value, the blue light of traffic light starts flashing and the the buzzer sounds intermittently. END OF REEL DIAMETER When the reel diameter drops below the set value, the machine: - If “End of reel with junction” is disabled stops in alarm immediately. - If “End of reel with junction” is enabled stops in alarm when junction is detected. DOSER IN LINE TIME Time to wait before to start moving the doser out of line when the machine stops.  End of reel junction system could be enabled only if reel supplier put junction tape 1,5 meters before the end of film.   
5.3.30 Level control page (optional) This page allows the operator to enable or disable the level control of the product of the 4 containers. It also permits to change the time to reload the containers and the time to alarm.  Screen 33 - Level control page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS CONTROL 1 ENABLE This button enables the level control of the 1st container. CONTROL 2 ENABLE This button enables the level control of the 2nd container. CONTROL 3 ENABLE This button enables the level control of the 3rd container. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the doser selection page. SET DATA TIME TO RELOAD Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the time to wait before to start reloading product when the sensor detects the end of product. TIME TO ALARM Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the time to wait before to give an alarm when the sensor detects the end of product.    
5.3.31  Printer page (optional) This page allows the operator to see and modify the parameters related to the printer device.  Screen 34 - Printer page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS PRINTER ENABLE This button allows the operator to enable the printer. BARCODE ENABLE (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to enable the barcode function. PRINTER MOTION (OPTIONAL) This button allows the operator to move to the printer motion page. BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the doser selection page. SET DATA PRINTER PHASE Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the phase of the printer to start referred to the jaws phase. PRINTER ON TIME Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the time to keep on the signal of the printer and the film stopper.    
5.3.32 Printer motion page (optional) This page allows the operator to see and modify the parameters related to the printer device.  Screen 35 - Printer motion page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS PRINTER HOMING This button allows the operator to perform a homing of the printer device BACK This button moves to the previous page, in this case the doser selection page. SET DATA START POSITION Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the start position of the printer stroke. END POSITION Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the end position of the printer stroke. SPEED Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the speed of the printer. ACCELERATION Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the acceleration of the printer. START OFFSET Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the offset during the normal stroke. REVERSE OFFSET Entering a value inside this white box, the operator change the offset during reverse stroke. REPETITION Entering a value inside this white box, the operator set the number of repetition of the start signal, in order to cover all the lines. BAG WIDTH Entering a value inside this white box, the operator set the bag width, which allows the repetition to be done in the right spot on all lines. 	  
5.3.33 Alarm page  Screen 36 - Alarm page. The alarm condition is given by an acoustic signal together with a flash of red light of traffic light, followed by an immediate stop of the machine. The indicator “ALARMS” of status bar on the display becomes red. By pressing the function key “Alarms”, alarm list is shown: therefore you can scroll the pages by using the scroll bar on the right. For each alarm there is a description, the start time of alarm and the actual condition of alarm (ON or OFF). Until the alarm will not be recognised, the alarm appears highlighted and the red light of traffic light keep flashing. It is not possible to start the machine if not acknowledged alarms are present (red light flashing).  To acknowledge alarm press “Alarms RESET” key. It’s possible to select one alarm and show his history (how many times and when the alarm has occurred) by pressing the button “History”.  PAGE FUNCTION KEYS ALARMS RESET This button disables all the active alarms. BACK This button moves to the previous page.  			 		 
5.3.34 Alarm history page  Screen 37 - Alarm page. PAGE FUNCTION KEYS CLEAR ALL ALARMS	 (LEVEL 3) This button deletes all the alarms. BACK This button moves to the previous page.  
5.3.35 Users manager applications   To access to the User info screen, click on the “User” box on the upper right side.    When the operator does the login as Level 4 the “Users manager” key is shown. LOGIN This function key allows the operator to enter the desired security level [] in order to be able to perform certain tasks. If the username and password are correct, the registered username will appear on all the screens inside the box above the log in button. LOGOUT This function key allows the operator to log out from previously registered user.  CHANGE PASSWORD With this button you can change the password of the active user (if the function is enabled for that specific user) USERS MANAGER Open the Users Manager page    Only qualified and trained personnel may manage user accounts.  User manager is used to manage the users that can access the machine. It’s possible to add users, remove users, change passwords and change security level. On left column is shown the list of operators.   When a Group is selected, on the right column is possible to edit its name and description. It is also possible to delete it (and all the users linked to this group).    When an operator is selected, on the right column is possible to edit the username, the password and the security level.     By clicking on “Advanced Options” tab is possible to change some options as the automatic logoff.   IF ALL LEVEL 4 USERS WILL BE DELETED OPERATOR PANEL WILL NO LONGER BE ACCESSIBLE      6  
6 TROUBLESHOOTING FOREWORD             In this section are described all the type of alarms with their specific causes and solutions.        
6.1 Troubleshooting When the machine stops in alarm mode, the control panel shows the type of alarm (see "ALARM PAGES")  The following table lists the ALARM TYPE, the possible CAUSE, and the possible SOLUTIONS to solve the problem.  ALARM TYPE WHY? SOLUTIONS 
A100/101 – EMERGENCY BUTTON PRESSED The emergency button has been pressed. Check for any dangerous situation before releasing the emergency button. 
A102/109 – DOOR OPENED The indicated door is open. Close the opened door. Check the functionality of the door’s sensors. 
A113 - AIR LOW PRESSURE The compressed air is down.  Check if the FRL valve is opened. Check the manometer on the air entrance (it must indicate a pressure of 6 bars). 
A114 - POWER SUPPLY PHASES SWAPPED ALARM Line phases has been connected not properly. Switch off the machine and connect line phases correctly. 
A115 - ELECTRIC BOARD TEMPERATURE ALARM The temperature inside board has exceed the allowed threshold. Check the air filters of the fans. If necessary clean or replace the filters. Check the setting of the thermal sensor (50°C). 
A132 - HEATERS OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A133 - PSU OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A134 - UNWINDER OVERLOAD OR INVERTER ALARM Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker and inverter. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A135/136 - BELT OVERLOAD OR INVERTER ALARM Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker and inverter. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A137 – BELT 2 AGITATOR OVERLOAD Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker and inverter. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A138 - REEL ALIGNEMENT SYSTEM OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A140 - ASPIRATORS OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A141 - IONIZERS OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A142/145 - LAMP GROUP # OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A152/153 - HOPPER AGITATOR OVERLOAD ALARM Circuit breaker has turned off due to an abnormal absorption. Check related circuit breaker, restore it and check the device connected (check for mechanical issues). 
A154/161 – HOPPER LOAD OVERLOAD Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A162/163 – BELT OVERLOAD Circuit breaker or inverter is in alarm status Check circuit breaker. Check if there is mechanical issue on the device. 
A164 - MARK DETECTION MISSING The photocell has not detected for 5 consecutive times the print centring mark.  The packaging material is not in a centred position, therefore the photocell cannot detect the mark. The photocell is dirty or the lens is covered.  See the SICK photocell manual. 
A165 - MARK OUT OF ALLOWED RANGE The photocell has detected unexpected marks. The mark photocell is not aligned with the mark, therefore the photocell detect false marks. See the SICK photocell manual. 
A166 - END OF FILM REEL The film reel is finished. Replace the reel.  Check position and electric connections of the sensor. 
A167 - FILM UNWINDER SPEED TOO LOW The dancing roller of the unwinder has reach the highest position Check the unwinder 
A168 - FILM BROKEN The dancing roller of the unwinder has reach the lowest position Check the unwinder. 
A169 - REEL CENTERING  LIMIT REACHED (OPTIONAL) The unwinder group, due to the adjustment of the automatic reel centring, has reach the limit of the allowed range. Move the unwinder manually using the manual keys. Position the alignment photocell properly. 
A170/177 - END OF PRODUCT # The product level sensor number # detects low level. Add product. 
A179 - DOSER OUT OF LINE The doser is enabled but it is out of line. In case of manual movement move the doser in line. In case of automatic movement check the doser movement system. 
A180 - DOSER MOVEMENT TIME OUT The doser has not reached the position (on line or off line) into allowed time. In case of automatic movement check the doser movement system. 
A181 - FILM JOINT DETECTED The photocell has detected a joint on the film. Reject the sachets made with the film joint area. 
A196 - JAWS MOTOR ALARM  The motor utilized to move the sealing JAWS is working at too high a voltage. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A197 - FILM MOTOR ALARM  The motor utilized to move the sealing FILM is working at too high a voltage. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A198 - KNIFE MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of cut knife is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code. In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local PARKER SBC Service. 
A199 - STRIP MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of strip knife is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code. In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local PARKER SBC Service. 
A200 – PRINTER MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the printer is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A201 - POWDER DOSER MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the powder doser is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A202 - LIQUID DOSER MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the liquid doser is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A203/204 – PULLING ROLLERS MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the liquid doser is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A206 – LIQUID DOSER MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the liquid doser is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A207/208 – INFEED MOTOR ALARM The motor or the drive of the liquid doser is in alarm status. Check the drive and refer to the drive manual for the alarm code.  In case of need contact BOATO PACK or the local SBC Service. 
A228 - JAWS HOMING TIME OUT The homing movement of the jaws has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A229 - JAWS PROXIMITY  DETECTION MISSING   The proximity PX2 utilized to reset the jaws encoder does not show the presence of the "cam". The sensor could be loose and out of position. Check the electric connections of the sensor.   
A230 - KNIFE HOMING TIME OUT The homing movement of the knife has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A231 - STRIP HOMING TIME OUT The homing movement of the strip knife has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A232 – PRINTER HOMING TIMOUT The homing movement of the printer has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A233 – PRINTER OVERTRAVEL The printer has reached the mechanical limit of his stroke. Check the parameter of stoke length in the HMI panel. Check the positioning and the functioning of the printer overtravel sensor. 
A234 - PRINTER DEVICE ALARM The printing unit (ink-jet, laser-jet, etc...) is in alarm. Check the printer unit referring to the printer manual. 
A235 - POWDER DOSER HOMING TIME OUT The homing movement of the powder doser has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A236 - LIQUID DOSER HOMING TIME OUT The homing movement of the liquid doser has exceed the allowed time. Check the doser drive and motor. Check mechanical transmissions. Check homing proximity. 
A237 – KNIFE SYNC ALARM The knife axis is not synchronized. Perform the homing procedure. If the problem persist contact Boatopack srl. 
A238 – STRIP SYNC ALARM The strip knife axis is not synchronized. Perform the homing procedure. If the problem persist contact Boatopack srl. 
A239/240 – INFEED HOMING TIMEOUT The homing movement of the infeed has exceed the allowed time. Check the correct running of the motor and the detection sensors. 
A244 - JAWS OVERSPEED ALARM The pnoz detected abnormal speed of the jaws axis during inching. Check the correct positioning, connection and operation of the two speed detection proximity. 
A245 - FILM OVERSPEED ALARM The pnoz detected abnormal speed of the film axis during inching. Check the correct positioning, connection and operation of the two speed detection proximity. 
A246 - KNIFE OVERSPEED ALARM The pnoz detected abnormal speed of the knife axis during inching. Check the correct positioning, connection and operation of the two speed detection proximity. 
A247 - STRIP OVERSPEED ALARM The pnoz detected abnormal speed of the strip axis during inching. Check the correct positioning, connection and operation of the two speed detection proximity. 
A338/395 - TEMP OUT OF RANGE ALARM The temperature is out of set range Wait until jaws and rolls reach the set temperature. Check the temperature range set. 
A396/403 - HEATER SENSOR ERROR The thermo regulators does not communicate with control unit. Verify connection between thermo regulators and control unit. 
A421 - BARCODE FAILURE ALARM (OPTIONAL) Barcode reader detect a wrong barcode on the film Verify the film reel 
A422 - BARCODE MULTIPLE ALARM (OPTIONAL) The barcode reader cannot read barcode more than 3 consecutive times  Verify the film reel and the position of barcode reader. 
A423 - BARCODE DISABLED ALARM (OPTIONAL) The barcode reader is hardware enabled (selector placed on the barcode cabinet) but it’s disabled on the display.  Enable barcode reader on the display 
A516 - SACHETS JAM ON EXIT BELT ALARM One or more sachets missing on exit belt. Check if there are jammed sachets on knife or deviator. 
A521 - BOX MISSING ALARM The incoming empty box on belt 2 is missing. Check the forming machine. Check the functioning of the belt 2. 
A522 - BOX CLOGGING ALARM The full box on belt 2 is blocked. Check the belt 2 functioning. Check for mechanical impediments. 
A523 - BOX BELT NOT READY The box belt (belt 2) is not working. Check the power supply of the box belt. Tab. C - Troubleshooting.